Integrity checks via policy (#23834)
nodejs/node: doc/api/policy.md

# Policies

<!--introduced_in=TODO-->
<!-- type=misc -->

> Stability: 1 - Experimental

<!-- name=policy -->

Node.js contains experimental support for creating policies on loading code.

Policies are a security feature intended to allow guarantees
about what code Node.js is able to load. The use of policies assumes
safe practices for the policy files such as ensuring that policy
files cannot be overwritten by the Node.js application by using
file permissions.

A best practice would be to ensure that the policy manifest is read only for
the running Node.js application, and that the file cannot be changed
by the running Node.js application in any way. A typical setup would be to
create the policy file as a different user id than the one running Node.js

> and granting read permissions to the user id running Node.js.

Reviewer: In the current design, this is only recommended, not enforced anyhow, or otherwise encouraged through warnings?

Author: It is prohibitively hard to do this check properly. We should not try to enforce it unless someone can come up with a solid solution. We could warn, but it also would be hard to detect all possible cases that could allow mutation. Sometimes the mutation is even desirable if you are editing a policy file such as prompting on error.

compatible with the browser
[integrity attribute](https://www.w3.org/TR/SRI/#the-integrity-attribute)
associated with absolute URLs.

When using `require()` all resources involved in loading are checked for
integrity if a policy manifest has been specified. If a resource does not match
the integrity listed in the manifest, an error will be thrown.

An example policy file that would allow loading a file `checked.js`:

```json
{
  "resources": {
    "./app/checked.js": {
      "integrity": "sha384-SggXRQHwCG8g+DktYYzxkXRIkTiEYWBHqev0xnpCxYlqMBufKZHAHQM3/boDaI/0"
    }
  }
}
```

Each resource listed in the policy manifest can be of one the following
formats to determine its location:

1. A [relative url string][] to a resource from the manifest such as `./resource.js`, `../resource.js`, or `/resource.js`.
2. A complete url string to a resource such as `file:///resource.js`.

When loading resources the entire URL must match including search parameters
and hash fragment. `./a.js?b` will not be used when attempting to load
`./a.js` and vice versa.

In order to generate integrity strings, a script such as
`printf "sha384-$(cat checked.js | openssl dgst -sha384 -binary | base64)"`

> can be used.

Reviewer 2: Can we make the above a tiny node module under the nodejs organization? That will not work on Windows, and it will not be recursive.

Author: We can, I have some work in https://github.com/bmeck/node-policy that we could transfer over. Can this be done separately from the initial PR as that tool needs more work as well.

Reviewer 2: +1 as long as it happens before it exits experimental status. Being unix-only is problematic.

the running Node.js application, and that the file cannot be changed
by the running Node.js application in any way. A typical setup would be to
create the policy file as a different user id than the one running Node.js
and granting read permissions to the user id running Node.js.

## Enabling

<!-- type=misc -->

The `--experimental-policy` flag can be used to enable features for policies
when loading modules.

Once this has been set, all modules must conform to a policy manifest file
passed to the flag:

```sh
node --experimental-policy=policy.json app.js
```

The policy manifest will be used to enforce constraints on code loaded by
Node.js.

## Features

### Error Behavior

When a policy check fails, Node.js by default will throw an error.
It is possible to change the error behavior to one of a few possibilities
by defining an "onerror" field in a policy manifest. The following values are
available to change the behavior:

* `"exit"` - will exit the process immediately.
    No cleanup code will be allowed to run.
* `"log"` - will log the error at the site of the failure.
* `"throw"` (default) - will throw a JS error at the site of the failure.

```json
{

>   "onerror": "log",

Author: it is intended to, this is more a global level hook if anything is not specified.

my other stuff has it organized like:

```js
{
  onerror: 'log',
  policies: {
      eslint: { onerror: ... }
  },
  resources: { ... }
}
```

This could use more work prior to taking anything out of experimental.

> # Policies

Reviewer 3: We should describe what policies are more in details.

<!--introduced_in=TODO-->
<!-- type=misc -->

> > Stability: 0 - Experimental

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> Stability: 1 - Experimental
```

Reviewer 4: `0` is used for deprecated.

<!-- name=policy -->

Node.js contains experimental support for creating policies on loading code.

## Enabling

<!-- type=misc -->

The `--experimental-policy` flag can be used to enable features for policies when loading modules.

> Once this has been set, all modules must conform to a policy file passed to the flag

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Once this has been set, all modules must conform to a policy file passed to the flag:
```

```sh

> node --experimental-policy policy.json app.js

Reviewer 5: I'd prefer syntax like `--experimental-policy=policy.json app.js` (note the `=`)

Author: this doesn't mesh with other cli options like `--require`

Reviewer 6: @jasnell @bmeck Fun fact: Because we were previously inconsistent about this w.r.t. different options, *both* work with the new options parser. Like, you can also currently use `--require=...` instead of `--require …`, if you prefer :)

Author: changed doc, though autocomplete won't work with the = form, curious why the preference but not really anything of note. I do have some concerns and need to think of if we ever want separate flags for policies if this occupies the = space.

```

## Features

### Integrity Checks

> Policy files must use integrity checks with Subresource Integrity strings compatible with the [integrity attribute as present in browsers](https://www.w3.org/TR/SRI/#the-integrity-attribute) associated with absolute URLs.

Reviewer 5: nit: line wrap at <= 80 chars

Author: fixed, had to reword a bit

> And example policy file that would let you load a file `checked.js` would be:

Reviewer 4: Maybe:
```suggestion
An example policy file that would let you load a file `checked.js` would be:
```

> An example policy file that would let you load a file `checked.js` would be:

Reviewer 5: nit: please don't use `you`

```suggestion
An example policy file that would allow loading a file `checked.js`:
```

```json
{
  "resources": {
    "file:///path/to/checked.js": {
      "integrity": "sha384-SggXRQHwCG8g+DktYYzxkXRIkTiEYWBHqev0xnpCxYlqMBufKZHAHQM3/boDaI/0"
    }
  }
}
```

> In order to generate integrity strings, a script such as `printf "sha384-$(cat checked.js | openssl dgst -sha384 -binary | base64)"` can be used.

Reviewer 2: This is not really friendly for people on Windows. We should provide a tool on npm to automate this.

Author: I can agree to that but a generalized manifest tool seems something that we aren't ready to make a design for while we still are working out the design of manifests themselves.

Reviewer 2: This is not really a blocker, but something that we should put into the roadmap for this to get out of experimental.

# Policies

<!--introduced_in=TODO-->
<!-- type=misc -->

> Stability: 1 - Experimental

<!-- name=policy -->

Node.js contains experimental support for creating policies on loading code.

Policies are a security feature intended to allow guarantees
about what code Node.js is able to load. The use of policies assumes
safe practices for the policy files such as ensuring that policy
files cannot be overwritten by the Node.js application by using
file permissions.

## Enabling

<!-- type=misc -->

The `--experimental-policy` flag can be used to enable features for policies when loading modules.

Once this has been set, all modules must conform to a policy file passed to the flag:

```sh
node --experimental-policy=policy.json app.js
```

## Features

### Integrity Checks

Policy files must use integrity checks with Subresource Integrity strings
compatible with the browser
[integrity attribute](https://www.w3.org/TR/SRI/#the-integrity-attribute)

> associated with absolute URLs.

Reviewer 3: I would add a warning to detail the behavior: "If a policy check fails, the call ro `require` will throw an exception"

Author: that is in https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/23834/files#diff-a85ad5bb9b9ea49ac5513cb0014e3cfeR52

# Policies

<!--introduced_in=TODO-->
<!-- type=misc -->

> Stability: 1 - Experimental

<!-- name=policy -->

Node.js contains experimental support for creating policies on loading code.

Policies are a security feature intended to allow guarantees
about what code Node.js is able to load. The use of policies assumes
safe practices for the policy files such as ensuring that policy
files cannot be overwritten by the Node.js application by using
file permissions.

A best practice would be to ensure that the policy manifest is read only for
the running Node.js application, and that the file cannot be changed
by the running Node.js application in any way. A typical setup would be to
create the policy file as a different user id than the one running Node.js
and granting read permissions to the user id running Node.js.

## Enabling

<!-- type=misc -->

The `--experimental-policy` flag can be used to enable features for policies
when loading modules.

Once this has been set, all modules must conform to a policy manifest file
passed to the flag:

```sh
node --experimental-policy=policy.json app.js
```

> The policy manifest will be used to enforce constraints on code loaded by Node.js

Reviewer 4: Line length:
```suggestion
The policy manifest will be used to enforce constraints on code loaded by
Node.js
```

## Features

### Integrity Checks

Policy files must use integrity checks with Subresource Integrity strings
compatible with the browser
[integrity attribute](https://www.w3.org/TR/SRI/#the-integrity-attribute)
associated with absolute URLs.

When using `require()` all resources involved in loading are checked for
integrity if a policy manifest has been specified. If a resource does not match
the integrity listed in the manifest, an error will be thrown.

An example policy file that would allow loading a file `checked.js`:

```json
{
  "resources": {
    "./app/checked.js": {
      "integrity": "sha384-SggXRQHwCG8g+DktYYzxkXRIkTiEYWBHqev0xnpCxYlqMBufKZHAHQM3/boDaI/0"
    }
  }
}
```

> Each resource listed in the policy manifest can be of one the following

Reviewer 4: Not sure, but maybe:
```suggestion
Each resource listed in the policy manifest can be one of the following
```

formats to determine its location:

> 1. A [relative url string][] to a resource from the manifest such as `./resource.js`, `../resource.js`, or `/resource.js`.

Reviewer 4: url -> URL + line length.
```suggestion
1. A [relative URL string][] to a resource from the manifest such as
   `./resource.js`, `../resource.js`, or `/resource.js`.
```

> 2. A complete url string to a resource such as `file:///resource.js`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. A complete URL string to a resource such as `file:///resource.js`.
```

> When loading resources the entire URL must match including search parameters and hash fragment. `./a.js?b` will not be used when attempting to load `./a.js` and vice versa.

Reviewer 4: Line length:
```suggestion
When loading resources the entire URL must match including search parameters and
hash fragment. `./a.js?b` will not be used when attempting to load `./a.js` and
vice versa.
```

> In order to generate integrity strings, a script such as `printf "sha384-$(cat checked.js | openssl dgst -sha384 -binary | base64)"` can be used.

Reviewer 4: Line length:
```suggestion
In order to generate integrity strings, a script such as
`printf "sha384-$(cat checked.js | openssl dgst -sha384 -binary | base64)"`
can be used.
```

> [relative url string]: https://url.spec.whatwg.org/#relative-url-with-fragment-string

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[relative URL string]: https://url.spec.whatwg.org/#relative-url-with-fragment-string
```
